SPRITE LAYERS.

background 0
walls bellow grid items 5
grid items are on top of everything. below units. 10
units 20
items 25

UI 100

13.6.2018
Add walls. Like a building.

Soo. I have a few ways to do this. Full slot walls. Thin walls.
Full slot walls will make climbing easy too.

How do I want to build level? Place stuff. Then apply items.

Maybe grid detects which slot are taken ?
-- all raycasting + components.


Abilities are active depending on the slot, the area around it.
- ui system that allows you to show new items. 
One way is to just show the abilities, above items.
Another is to show them in drop down menu.
- load items based on parameters scanned from slot.
- somehow mark objects in area, and make them avaliable to scan - per range per ability

Ok I got abilities of slots. Or parameters.
Now these things have to be loaded on grid - ok, so they can be accesed from ui controller - ok.
The items have to be activated to show UI when player selects unit. -ok 1
ui has to be constructed by hand, or just enabled piece by piece. -ok
ui pieces have to moved so they don't cover each other. Do this LATER! -ok ish
works for now. should be redone to be more robust.
ui shuold be visible only in interaction range.

ability slots ui.

-accuracy. throw range. guns. pick item. flip table. deco-remateliarize. pass item.
AP restore. aoe shield. reinforce area or item. aoe blast cone.aoe drain. passive

pick item: ui when on slot to pick up. -ok
ui button list with attached abilities? ok 19.6.2018
all player's abilities are assigned to ui - ok

stats that can be upgraded.
accuracy - added weapon class -ok
throw range - mask takes care of that, just add throw equipped ability. -ok
AP - ok
pickup. -ok
guns/items. -ok
wall cover
flip table - cut
classes
collect material - ok
pass item - inventory
AP restore
reinforce self
reinforce slot
aoe cone attack
aoe life drain
life per slot
air per slot
passives.

skill tree

23.6.2018
**
o. I don't have a concrete way to add abilities to units.
x. Fixed so all abilities use same system, grid slots.
- env abilitites
button shows up over slot and you click it
multiple choices
scrap this, u need 1 choice, have multiple attacks
- aoe env ability
same as normal attack?
spawn grid that follows mouse, snapped
on attacks, spawn grid based on mask.

- normal attacks
avaliable grid slot colors, and you press the grid.
- ui attacks
u press ui to select active normal attack
**
**
o. how to represent grid over map
x. semi transparent static grid where stuff can be done. background is behind it.

*dynamic grid - no
2 grids - map in the background and transparent clickable grid.
abilities and all that, instead spawns a new grid item overlay.
spawning is better, because we have better control over what's visible.
if it's grid... all we can do is recolor it.

spawn Mask or multiple masks
spawned mask can optionally be moved to mouse, inside range.
*

we click on grid items, props are ignored. -y
grid items are replacable. -no

oh this would allow me to have per slot type action. - cut

so click player ability button -> button interaction(two step attack)  - ok
-> (spawn mask -> click in loop -> destroy mask)

move: select unit in loop -> (spawn mask -> click in loop -> destroy mask) -ok

soo, have an ability scanner that scans area for certain interactions.
opt 1: always raycast, for every interaction choice. faster, costlier ~20 raycasts per hit.
opt 2: have data stored on grid item. it changes annoying to deal with every 
change. slot get's consumed -> changes, interaction is replaced. - ok
opt 3: re raycast every time there is a change on map.
attack + interaction type + mask = selectable area - ok

pickup ability on the attack list ok -24.6.2018


24.6.2018 - checkup
so far i redid the coloring system and attacking system. now it supports attacking for 
enbirounment and interactions both via the grid.
removed button based attack system.
i have a few standard attacks, range and melle, and weapon pickup and throw.
added hp bars.
standardized sprite layers

next goal: 
ned: finishing
1) come up with a scenario for levels - level design direction - pet/sob
2) add more abilities
3) add other classes <- finish builder - tor, then enhancer - sre and consumer - čet

** Build ability
comes with a mask that can be rotated
by default mask should be turned left to right

shapes: I, T, U, B

note: fill priority mask with ints instead of bools? this would let me have a spread mask
-> or better have a different mask for this.
**
** Collector class 26.6.2018 - 1d
Collector: Energy manipulation frontliner.

Hunker/calm. Increase defence for 1 turn. Restores some AP. -ok
instant ability, consumes all actions, end turn
grant defence or armor for 1 turn(inc hp?)
additional visual effects!

Enforce. Release inner power for a shield. Can block attacks in small area around the collector.
!

Enhance. Enhances (equipped) item or area. /Useful for reinforcing walls or doors against bullets./Useful for improving weapons
to item -> increase damage or range

Enhance walls or area. << currently useless since walls don't get destroyed. Could be used to consume more? meh.

Enhance item.
activate special ability for 2 turns. ability is on item not unit, so item can be passed to other units. (special turn counter on item, apply damage activates it)
--opt1: enhance type defines effect change--
opt2: weapon type defines effect change <-- a lot of interesting options. go with this.
Door: survivabilty against bullets
gun: insanity bullet - collector's aura gets mixed in opponets aura, which makes them lose control - reduce will?, maxmoves for n turns
stick: it becomes hard like steel which allows our soldiers to hit harder. increased damage.

Another interesting options is to to pass an enhanced item to unit with more actions, or further in in combat. -ok

! bullets destroy walls

Blast. Fire energy blast to affect area in some direction. High AP usage. -ok
aoe damage

**

Consumer
Drain life. Permanently drains life out of area around them. Give full AP. Affects allies
Drain flora. Drains plants and small life. Restores some AP.
Passive. Air drain. Restore 1 AP. Because of continous strain recieve Fatigue every 5 turns.

grid slots have plant life (taht slowly restores itself)
units have life -> converted to AP. no units = no AP
passive -> once per turn